In this lesson, I'm here to talk to you about the 96Boards Specification,
where the specification came from,
and why we created it.
So, the 96Boards group,
we realized that there wasn't a specification for a board that was specific for ARM SoCs.
There were many other board specifications for PCs built on Intel chips for boards like
the Pi or the Beagle board that were built on
specific chips and those boards all brought
out just the connections that were specific to that chip.
Every time you have a new chip,
you get a new specification,
a different physical form factor board.
We wanted a single,
physical form factor that brought out the same signals for every ARM SoC.
The one thing we knew we had in common is
most ARM SoCs were originally developed for cell phones.
So, we have all of the cell phone common interfaces.
And that's what we brought to the surface of the 96Boards Spec.
The second thing we wanted in the specification was a small size,
the size of a credit card.
By making it small,
we knew that we would keep the cost down,
make it easy to produce,
and make it easy to put into systems,
to use as a building block for building larger things.
So, those were the real reason behind why we want to do the Specs.
Then we got into some of the details and the first thing we recognized is,
with this very small form factor,
it was impossible to put something like
a large ethernet connector if you wanted wired ethernet.
So we built a second version of the Specification which we call
the extended 96Boards CE Specification and we'll get into the details of those.
But the basic footprint of the high speed and low speed connector,
which we'll get into later,
is common across all of
the 96Board Specifications and allows you to build mezzanine cards that
will inter-operate with SoCs from
multiple vendors and different speeds and powers of CPU.
So, this gave us a great building block.
So, some of the unique features we realized.
We had looked at the Raspberry Pi as a example and one of
the things we noticed was people had so much problem with power to the Raspberry Pi.
If you didn't have exactly the right power supply, the board crashed.
And that is still an issue with Raspberry Pis.
We wrote the Specifications so that we would accept a wide range of power.
In this case, we accept anything between eight and 18 volts,
which means you can run it from battery packs,
12-volt car systems, and any 12-volt supply, 14.4-volt battery packs.
And all you need to do is give the board power and it will clean it up
and create the clean power that's necessary to run a board like this.
So that was one of the unique features of the Specification.
A few other things we did is we brought it two USBs.
We didn't stack them one on top of the other because we wanted
the board to be very thin to allow very compact systems.
So there's only seven millimeters above the board
and three millimeters below the board of space,
giving you a really compact system,
size for credit card.
But, of course, if you need to add more features,
you can stack mezzanine boards.
Other things we did is we started developing the 410c board and
the 410c board was intended to bring out the features of the Qualcomm board.
So, we started looking at it.
And one of the problems we realized is you have thermal issues.
You need to get rid of the power from the SoC out to
a heat sink or some external element if you're running the SoC at full speed.
You'll notice that the DragonBoard has a rectangular area
here that is thermally conductive up to the SoC.
Now, every system that you've worked on in the past always had
the SoC and the heat sink on the top of the board.
And in this case, the SoC is on the top but the heat sink goes on the bottom.
When you're using very high powered CPUs such as
the Intel processors that dissipate 125 Watts,
you need a large heat sink and east have very good contact with the dye,
the silicon dye inside the chip.
In this case, we're using much lower power CPUs,
typically in the three or four watt region.
And it's sufficient for the heat to flow down through all of the balls in the package
and out through the plains of the copper on the board and through that pad on the bottom.
So, we can use a very different heat sink design.
Other features that we brought in on here is we recognize that
connectivity is incredibly important in every system,
so we added Bluetooth and Wi-Fi antennas.
And this area is reserved in the 96Board Spec for
antennas because every system will have connectivity.
And the world is wireless now,
so you'll see that there are no wired connections.
We've also brought out HDMI port so that you can connect to any standard HDMI monitor.
And that makes it easy to connect.
This port is identical to the port on
your cell phone that you normally connect your charging to.
So it is a USB slave port and these are two USB master ports.
So all of these things together combine in
one very small neat package gives you the DragonBoard.
At the end of this lesson, we'll give you a set of resources you
can actually go and read the 96Board Specification.
And so, there is the Specification on the 96Boards website.
There's also a 96Boards GitHub which has the Specification.
Hopefully, this will give you an introduction to the board and what you can do with it.